>> Brian Holt: So arrays have
a bunch of like helper methods or
helper functions built on to them,
which make them very useful, right?
So I have prime numbers here where I
just list out a bunch of prime numbers.
If I ask prime numbers dot length,
which notice length is not a function,
it's a property, right.
If I ask for primes dot length,
I get back eight.
That's how many items are in the array,
right?
So if I have an array of length eight,
that means it has indexes
from zero to seven, right?
Because everything starts at zero,
so that's what length eight means.
It means that there are eight objects or
eight things in there.
Which means that it goes
from zero to seven.
Join is if you wanna take an entire array
and condense it down to one string.
So in this case, I will take all the prime
numbers and I wanna log them out.
And I wanna put a barb in
a space between all of them.
So notice here, that's what this does.
Or I could have put here something else.
And then it will put something
else between all of them.
>> Brian Holt: Or
if I put nothing in there,
it will just squish them all together
with nothing in between them.
>> Brian Holt: Or if you put nothing at
all, it will put commas I think, yeah,
it just automatically puts
commas if you give it nothing.
So that's what joined was, it's useful for
like logging things out and,
>> Brian Holt: I don't know,
sometimes you need to join a race,
it's there if you need it.
And this particular example here,
I have const courses,
>> Brian Holt: And
I have a bunch of different teachers here.
And then if I want to add
something to the end of the array,
I do courses.push, right?
And what push is, push is another function
that's built onto the array that just adds
something on the end,
it just tax it on the end.
Now you might ask why push.
It's archaic like computer sciency terms.
It's just like in every language,
it's called push.
Whenever you put something on the end,
you push it on the end.
Consequently, if you want to
remove the last item on something,
you can also do course dot,
>> Brian Holt: Pop,
again, I didn't make this up.
So what this will do, this will
remove the last item in the array,
and it will give it back to you.
So now here, because I just pushed
on Sean Larkins course right there.
Sean Larkins course will now be
here on this course stored there,
so if the console.log(course), okay?
So when I pushed down there,
this was on courses.
That was the last item here,
and then when I popped it off,
they removed it from the array.
So you'll notice here it's not on
the array when I log out right there.
>> Speaker 2: What's the advantage of
using push instead of just going back and
adding it to the array?
Is it so you can take it on and
off easier?
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
it's just convenient, right?
Cuz I don't have to know how
long the array is there, right?
You could do it a different way,
but this is just really easy.
>> Speaker 3: And it will pop only
take off the last one that you added?
Can you put a different one in
there to remove that instead?
Don't want just the last
one that was added there?
>> Brian Holt: Pop will
only remove the last one,
so if I wanted to take most multiple off,
I would just call courses.pop times.
So I could do this, and this will just
keep removing the last one, right?
If I look down here,
let's get rid of that.
So now here,
I've popped off four of them, right?
So notice that this array now
is just Kyle Simpsons, and
if I popped it one more time,
notice now it's a totally empty array.
That's your question?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Brian Holt: Cool.
>> Speaker 4: What if you want
to leave a specific one like,
there's one in the middle or
the front, whatever.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, so there's a bunch
of different things we can do here,
which I will show you.
Let me show you this one first and
then I will answer your question.
So in this particular case,
I put in here my complete intro to react
the three course and
then I came back and redid it.
So here, I over wrote the one that I did
with complete ensured to react before.
So you notice here, these three, the first
time I log it out right there, right?
And then I log it again afterwards, and
you can see that I've overwritten the
previous ones now only before is there.
So the way that I did that is I said,
course two equals, and
I just assigned it a new object, right.
>> Brian Holt: And that overrides
what was there previously and
put something new there, so
that's how you can do that.
>> Brian Holt: So, if you actually want
to like pull things out of the array,
there's a couple different
ways to do that.
It's just,
get rid of the stuff in the middle.
>> Brian Holt: So, one of you can do is,
see now how I can, I was telling you that
I can't ever remember that if it's
been sub string and sub stir.
There’s splice and slice, and
I have to look it up every single time.
Pretty sure we’re talking
about splice this time, so
let’s go with that and
then I might have to look it up.
So let’s say I wanna remove
my course from here.
So subarray=courses.splice,
and I want to start at index two.
Pretty sure and I want to remove one, yes.
I remembered it,
[LAUGH] the dangers of live coding.
And so what this is does,
it starts at our index two and
it removes one element, okay?
And now if I console.logsubarray,
that should just be my course now,
which is what it is.
So if I gave it to here,
it would also grab Steve's course as well.
And the no sound here
Steve courses not in it.
So you can remove multiple objects, and
the other thing that you can do if you
want to, I believe I can say like,
course, intro to angular,
something like that.
And what this will actually do is
it'll actually, whatever you put here,
it will insert in its place as well.
So as you can see splice is a quite
useful function there as well if
you're operating on a race.
There's another one called slice, and
slice has relatively different semantics,
but it's also gonna operate on race,
as well.
>> Speaker 3: It's not gonna complain at
all that you're only giving a course and
not a teacher object
inside of that object?
>> Brian Holt: [INAUDIBLE] types
don't mean a thing in JavaScript.
>> Speaker 3: I hate that.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah-
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Well,
there's lots of people that
would love to argue about that.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: I'm sure, [LAUGH]
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, you can, but
yeah, it doesn't do any sort of
validation with types sort of like that.
But if you're interested in that,
there's two different things,
one's called typescript and
one is called flow.
And they will enforce types
on top of JavaScript.
>> Speaker 3: It's seems like you
could write terrible code with this.
>> Brian Holt: Like types aren't gonna
prevent you from writing terrible code,
that's-
>> Speaker 3: Sure, hard to read,
hard to understand if you
come back to it later.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah, but
also fighting with type system sucks.
I'm a big proponent of types,
I actually quite like types.
When I write my own code
I write type script.
But, there are reasons that it's very
nice that JavaScript is quite dynamic.